just the sense of accomplishment and
pride and self confidence that they
build along the way and the project is
just unbelievable the whole thing is
written motorcycle message motorcycle
message motorcycle message so you don't
miss those
like teaching opportunities is really
what it's about
my name is Laura Klock and I'm the
co-founder of help from the horsepower
helping with horsepower is a non-profit
waveform that develops programs and
empowered and courage and we help
charities raise funds so the program
that we run here at the Abbott house is
the helping with horsepower bike reveal
program so it's a curriculum that I
wrote that uses a motorcycle as a tool
to teach life messages Abbott house is
what I would say a sanctuary for four
girls here in South Dakota from the ages
of 7 to 17 and primarily they come here
to work on issues and things that have
happened in the past that are really a
probably present time controlling them
in their behavior and so they generally
then will be displaying things like
anger or depression we see a lot of
girls are coming that are cutting or
doing some self-harm and so we work with
them on those issues initially just to
stop those behaviors really trying to
help a young girl realize that maybe
your life has been crappy to this point
and you know look at this motorcycle
again it's a parallel the one that we
got this time has been neglected its
whole life it's six years old and it's
it was neglected and the girls come in
that way to some of them are just a
little damaged like our first fight some
of them have been neglected their whole
but have allowed me to when I was in the
room with the people I was allowed to
communicate with Laura and we would
bring up stories about the bike and
related to our life at first it was a
little scary because I didn't know what
I was doing I'm like oh my gosh I mean I
rate this but then once I got the hang
of it I was like oh this is really cool
and it was really fun so you started
really turn those layers off getting
down there doing the work and then the
transformation begins we start choosing
new parts i give the girls choices you
know a couple different front fender
choices couple different handles our
choices but they're choosing what it's
going to look like just like they're
making decisions you know what what
they're going to be what's gonna
personally going to be you know what
kind of motorcycle is this going to look
like we have to take the whole bike
apart and put it back together and it
made us realize that
anything can be fixed no matter how hard
you try I didn't think I could change
and then I realize that I was every day
I was slowly changing it was kind of I
guess I just kind of helped heal me
break in a way right there help me
better through the bike project she
really has done a few things she's
helped them to build an amazing
motorcycle but she's also then taught
them about tools and about how to take
things that are broken within them and
they can turn them into positives and
they don't have to be again controlled
by their past or other peoples are these
going to be a bunch of girl but leave
here and become motorcycle builders
probably not but they're learning skills
that but they'll remember that they'll
use I don't have to be afraid to try
that I can read the instructions and
figure that out you know we'll just
I can work with that girl that I was
fighting with a half
hour ago you know we can put our
differences aside and we have a common
goal that we're working on to see them
get it and to see those lights go off or
at that moment where they're so proud of
something they just did even if it's one
time turning a wrench they've never
turned a wrench before I mean you can
build on that they can leave here and
build on that
you